# Duotrigordle
Practice software for duotrigordle

This is a software that I made to practice when going for the Duotrigordle world record. I made it with my use in mind, so it might not be the most user friendly, but it's not too complicated and is fairly self explanatory. Downloading it and running it is going to 
be the most complicated part. It is still a work in progress, and there are a couple things I would like to add to it still. All code will be open source. If you would like to report a bug, suggest a feature, or possibly want to help with the coding/graphic design,
feel free to email me at minestone4306@gmail.com or dm me on discord at minestone4306. I hope you enjoy and download instructions will be below.

**DOWNLOAD INSTRUCTIONS**
1. Install python. This can be done by going to https://www.python.org/downloads/ and downloading the version that works for your computer. This was coded exclusively on Python 3.9.9 and I have not tested it on other versions. Must be run on Windows 7 and up.     
   Link for Windows Python 3.9.9 x64: https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.9.9/python-3.9.9-amd64.exe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
   Link for Windows Python 3.9.9 x32: https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.9.9/python-3.9.9.exe                                                                                                                                                                   
   Link for MacOS 3.9.9 Universal2: https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.9.9/python-3.9.9-macos11.pkg                                                                                                                                                             
   Link for MacOS 3.9.9 Intel-only: https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.9.9/python-3.9.9-macosx10.9.pkg\n
2. Click on whichever link is for your operating system, and download the installer to your desktop (should be the default location).
3. After you have clicked install, run the installer from your desktop.
4. **MAKE SURE YOU CHECK THE BOX THAT SAYS "Add python.exe to PATH"**
5. Simply click install and if it asks for admin permission, just say yes. Here is a video tutorial: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yivyNCtVVDk (He adds python to all users, you can do this if you want).
6. You can delete the installer now if you would like.
7. Now you need to install a IDE (Integrated Development Environment). There are two main options for Python and I'll explain both.                      
   a) Download and use Visual Studio Code. This is what I would recommend. It is quite simple to install and use. If you don't already have it installed (some computers will have it preinstalled) go to https://code.visualstudio.com/download and download the version that is for your computer (if you're on windows just click the big button up top, I'm not familiar with Mac and Linux). Just save the installer to your desktop again. Run the installer, accept the terms of service, and just keep clicking next until you see install. Once it is done installing, you can delete the installer and close Visual Studio for now. I would recommend restarting your computer after this, but it may not be required.
   
   b) The second and slightly harder way is by using PyCharm. PyCharm is similar to Visual Studio, but intended specifically for Python. To download it, go to https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/download/download-thanks.html?platform=windows&code=PCC and download the installer to your desktop. I don't know if they support operating systems other than Windows. Run the installer from your desktop. Click next once, and then again. **ON THE NEXT SCEREN MAKE SURE YOU CHECK THE BOX THAT SAYS "Add launchers dir to the PATH"** Click next, and then click install. You can choose to reboot after installing, as it will be required. Once you have clicked finish, you can delete the installer and close out PyCharm if it opens.
8. Now you need to download the files for the actual program. Go to https://download-directory.github.io/  From there you want to copy paste https://github.com/dcjvliet/Duotrigordle/tree/main/DownloadThis into the
bar. Press enter, and it will download the files into a zip folder (probably into your downloads folder). Then open file explorer and navigate to the downloads section. You should see dcjvliet Duotrigordle main
DownloadThis at the top. Left click on the file **ONCE**. Then right click on the file, and there should be an option that says "extract all". Choose this and extract all to the default location.
9. Now you need to open the IDE that you installed earlier. I will again show how to do it for both Visual Studio and PyCharm.               
    a) If you installed Visual Studio, use these instructions. In the search bar, search Visual Studio and it should come up. Click on it to run it. When it opens, the screen should be mostly blank. On the right hand side there should be a button that says "Open a Local Folder". Click this. Go to the downloads section and **CHOOSE THE EXTRACTED (UNZIPPED) FOLDER** (I don't think you can choose the zipped folder). If everything has been done correctly, it should look like this https://github.com/dcjvliet/Duotrigordle/blob/main/image_2023-12-27_214246646.png                                                                 
   b) If you installed PyCharm, use these instructions. In the search bar searc PyCharm. Click on it to open it. There should be a button that says "new project". Click this. You now need to get the unzipped folder into here. You can either go to your downloads and drag the folder into PyCharm (the easier way) or you can navigate to the PyCharm projects folder. If you used default installation settings, the folder will be located at C:\Users\[User]\Pycharm Projects\[Project Name] Then just drag the folder over from your downloads or copy paste it.
10. The last and final step is to install pygame. This is again different if you installe Visual Studio versus PyCharm, so I'll do both.
    a) If you installed Visual Studio, use these instructions. Select the menu.py file off to the right side of the screen. Down at the bottom, there should be a button that says "Developer PowerShell". Click this button. In the box above, type the command "pip install pygame" and press enter. If this doesn't work for some reason type "pip3 install pygame"
    b) If you installed PyCharm, use these instructions. Off on the very bottom left corner, there should be a button that says terminal (it looks like a box with >_ in it). Click on this. In the box that appears, type "pip install pygame" and press enter. If tihs doesn't work for some reason type "pip3 install pygame".
11. Now everything should be working correctly and all you need to do is run the file. For Visual Studio, go to **menu.py** and at the top **click the outlined green triangle** (it will be slightly to the left of the center of the screen). If you're on PyCharm, go to **menu.py** and at the top right **click the outlined white triangle**. If you find any bugs in the program, report them here or email me. Have fun!
